---
group: research
---
# Research

Our work focuses on data-driven modeling of the patterns of genetic variation 
within and between populations and species. We study both humans and non-human 
species (such as the medically relevant rhesus macaque and domesticated species 
like cows and rice). We frequently employ detailed population genetic 
simulations to better understand the implications of interacting evolutionary 
forces. We currently have three main lines of research:

## Population genetic modeling of human populations

In order to further understand the evolutionary forces that acted on our 
ancestors, we analyze large-scale sequencing data from populations throughout 
the world. In collaboration with the 1000 Genomes Project, we employ detailed 
population genetic models to better understand the implications of complex 
interactions among evolutionary forces on patterns of genetic variation within 
and between populations. One current focus is on the implications of a genome's 
worth of deleterious mutations that are interacting in complex ways to drive 
systematic genomic patterns of variation. Using detailed simulations and models 
of background selection, we seek to learn more about our species' history and 
to discover more of the functionally relevant regions of the genome.

## Disease susceptibility in complex populations:

Next-generation sequencing technologies are providing an unprecedented 
opportunity to learn about the genetic basis of disease. We strive to leverage 
evolutionary signals in patterns of genetic variation to uncover the meaningful 
associations with phenotypic variation. One primary focus is in a collaboration 
with Dr. Esteban Burchard, on the genetics of asthma in minority populations 
across the USA. By leveraging evolutionary signatures of natural selection and 
admixture patterns in trans-ethnic studies of Latino and African American 
populations, we will be able to gain insights into the genetics of this disease 
for the betterment of all populations.

## Host-pathogen interactions

Populations do not evolve in isolation. Rather, they are constantly interacting 
with other species, both mutualistically (as in the human microbiome) as well 
as competitively (in the case of pathogens). We are developing tools to 
leverage patterns of genetic diversity within populations and divergence across 
phylogenies to learn more about the genetic targets of such interactions. 
In collaboration with Dr. Nevan Krogan, we are investigating interactions 
between mammals across the phylogenetic tree and their associated 
immunodeficiency viruses (e.g., HIV, SIV, FIV, etc). Using both phylogenetic 
and population genetic techniques, we are learning about the nature of these 
interactions, and addressing pressing questions about the conditions under 
which viruses jump species barriers.